Documentation for SOS (#22117)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/diagnostics/sos-debugging-extension.md

---
title: "SOS Debugging Extension for .NET"
description: Provides information about the internal CLR environment.
ms.date: "12/21/2020"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "debugging extensions"
  - "SOS debugging extensions"
  - "SOS.dll"
---

# SOS debugging extension

> The SOS Debugging Extension lets you view information about code that is running inside the .NET Core runtime, both on live processes and dumps. The extension is pre-installed with [dotnet-dump](dotnet-dump.md) and [Windbg/dbg](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/debugger/debugger-download-tools), and can be [downloaded](dotnet-sos.md) for use with LLDB.  The SOS Debugging Extension is useful for collecting information about the managed heap, look for heap corruptions, display internal data types used by the runtime, and view information about all managed code running inside the runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SOS Debugging Extension lets you view information about code that is running inside the .NET Core runtime, both on live processes and dumps. The extension is pre-installed with [dotnet-dump](dotnet-dump.md) and [Windbg/dbg](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/debugger/debugger-download-tools), and can be [downloaded](dotnet-sos.md) for use with LLDB.  The SOS Debugging Extension is useful for collecting information about the managed heap, look for heap corruptions, display internal data types used by the runtime, and view information about all managed code running inside the runtime.
```

## Syntax

### Windows

`![command] [options]`

### Linux and MacOS

`sos [command] [options]`

Many of the commands have aliases or short cuts under lldb:

`clrstack [options]`

## Commands

|Command|Description|
|-------------|-----------------|

> |**bpmd** [**-nofuturemodule**] [\<*module name*> \<*method name*>] [**-md** <`MethodDesc`>] **-list** **-clear** \<*pending breakpoint number*> **-clearall**|Creates a breakpoint at the specified method in the specified module.<br /><br /> If the specified module and method have not been loaded, this command waits for a notification that the module was loaded and just-in-time (JIT) compiled before creating a breakpoint.<br /><br /> You can manage the list of pending breakpoints by using the **-list**, **-clear**, and **-clearall** options:<br /><br /> The **-list** option generates a list of all the pending breakpoints. If a pending breakpoint has a non-zero module ID, that breakpoint is specific to a function in that particular loaded module. If the pending breakpoint has a zero module ID, that breakpoint applies to modules that have not yet been loaded.<br /><br /> Use the **-clear** or **-clearall** option to remove pending breakpoints from the list.|

Reviewer 2: Personally I would rather teach how to get help from the command line than duplicating the command line help into the docs.  I am not sure it is adding value.

The formatting of this section seems crude.  I find it hard to read.  But perhaps it is because my monitors are in portrait layout instead of landscape.

I think this isn't consistent with the style guide.  However adding a `Synopsis` for every command could get very verbose.

Reviewer: I think it's still fine to have this as a reference document on SOS, which you can't find anywhere on the Internet other than our repo currently. It'll be more easily indexed and searchable by users. 

I'll leave the docs team to decide whether this table should be separated out into commands and add synopsis on each of them, but if that is indeed what needs to happen, I'd be happy to make the changes if @tommcdon wants to go write some other docs first :p.

Reviewer 3: If these are commands via command line, they should follow a similar style of https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-publish but we probably don't need a single page for each command. Getting away from the table style makes it easier to write though.

Author: I'm going to leave the table as-is for now and wait for customer feedback.

|**DumpAssembly** \<*assembly address*>|Displays information about an assembly.<br /><br /> The **DumpAssembly** command lists multiple modules, if they exist.<br /><br /> You can get an assembly address by using the **DumpDomain** command.|
|**DumpClass** \<*EEClass address*>|Displays information about the `EEClass` structure associated with a type.<br /><br /> The **DumpClass** command displays static field values but does not display nonstatic field values.<br /><br /> Use the **DumpMT**, **DumpObj**, **Name2EE**, or **Token2EE** command to get an `EEClass` structure address.|

> |**DumpDomain** [\<*domain address*>]|Enumerates each <xref:System.Reflection.Assembly> object that is loaded within the specified <xref:System.AppDomain> object address.  When called with no parameters, the **DumpDomain** command lists all <xref:System.AppDomain> objects in a process.|

Reviewer: Should we add a note here saying there's only 1 AppDomain for .NET Core applications so it won't come across as strange when users always only see 1 object here?

### Dotnet-Dump

Please see [dotnet-dump](dotnet-dump.md#analyze-sos-commands) for list of available SOS commands with `dotnet-dump analyze`.

### Windows Debugger

You can also use the SOS Debugging Extension by loading it into the [WinDbg/dbg debugger](/windows-hardware/drivers/debugger/debugger-download-tools) and executing commands within the Windows debugger.  SOS commands can be used on live processes or dumps.

To load the SOS Debugging Extension into the Windows debugger, run the following command in the tool:

```console
.loadby sos clr
```

WinDbg.exe and Visual Studio use a version of SOS.dll that corresponds to the version of Mscorwks.dll currently in use. By default, you should use the version of SOS.dll that matches the current version of Mscorwks.dll.

To use a dump file created on another computer, make sure that the Mscorwks.dll file that came with that installation is in your symbol path, and load the corresponding version of SOS.dll.

To load a specific version of SOS.dll, type the following command into the Windows Debugger:

```console
.load <full path to sos.dll>
```

### LLDB Debugger

> Please see [dotnet-sos](dotnet-sos) for instructions on configuring SOS for LLDB. SOS commands can be used on live processes or dumps.<br/><br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please see [dotnet-sos](dotnet-sos.md) for instructions on configuring SOS for LLDB. SOS commands can be used on live processes or dumps.<br/><br/>
```

---
title: "SOS Debugging Extension for .NET"

> description: Provides information about the internal CLR environment.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
description: Learn about the SOS debugging extension for .NET, which provides information about the internal CLR environment.
```

ms.date: "12/21/2020"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "debugging extensions"
  - "SOS debugging extensions"
  - "SOS.dll"
---

# SOS debugging extension

> The SOS Debugging Extension lets you view information about code that is running inside the .NET Core runtime, both on live processes and dumps. The extension is pre-installed with [dotnet-dump](dotnet-dump.md) and [Windbg/dbg](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/debugger/debugger-download-tools), and can be [downloaded](dotnet-sos.md) for use with LLDB.  The SOS Debugging Extension is useful for collecting information about the managed heap, look for heap corruptions, display internal data types used by the runtime, and view information about all managed code running inside the runtime.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The SOS Debugging Extension lets you view information about code that is running inside the .NET Core runtime, both on live processes and dumps. The extension is preinstalled with [dotnet-dump](dotnet-dump.md) and [Windbg/dbg](/windows-hardware/drivers/debugger/debugger-download-tools), and can be [downloaded](dotnet-sos.md) for use with LLDB.  The SOS Debugging Extension is useful for collecting information about the managed heap, looking for heap corruptions, displaying internal data types used by the runtime, and viewing information about all managed code running inside the runtime.
```

## Syntax

### Windows

`![command] [options]`

### Linux and MacOS

`sos [command] [options]`

Many of the commands have aliases or short cuts under lldb:

`clrstack [options]`

## Commands

> The table of commands below are available under **Help** or **soshelp**.  Individual command help is available using `soshelp <command>`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following table of commands is also available under **Help** or **soshelp**.  Individual command help is available using `soshelp <command>`.
```

|**VerifyHeap**|Checks the garbage collector heap for signs of corruption and displays any errors found.<br /><br /> Heap corruptions can be caused by platform invoke calls that are constructed incorrectly. |
|**VerifyObj** \<*object address*>|Checks the object that is passed as an argument for signs of corruption. Only supported on Windows.|
|**VMMap**|Traverses the virtual address space and displays the type of protection applied to each region. Only supported with Windbg.|
|**VMStat**|Provides a summary view of the virtual address space, ordered by each type of protection applied to that memory (free, reserved, committed, private, mapped, image). The TOTAL column displays the result of the AVERAGE column multiplied by the BLK COUNT column. Only supported with Windbg.|

## Remarks

> The SOS Debugging Extension lets you view information about code that is running inside the CLR. For example, you can use the SOS Debugging Extension to display information about the managed heap, look for heap corruptions, display internal data types used by the runtime, and view information about all managed code running inside the runtime.

Reviewer 4: I think we can remove this Remarks section. This info is already stated on line 13.

### Dotnet-Dump

> Please see [dotnet-dump](dotnet-dump.md#analyze-sos-commands) for list of available SOS commands with `dotnet-dump analyze`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For a list of available SOS commands with `dotnet-dump analyze`, see [dotnet-dump](dotnet-dump.md#analyze-sos-commands).
```

### Windows Debugger

You can also use the SOS Debugging Extension by loading it into the [WinDbg/dbg debugger](/windows-hardware/drivers/debugger/debugger-download-tools) and executing commands within the Windows debugger.  SOS commands can be used on live processes or dumps.

To load the SOS Debugging Extension into the Windows debugger, run the following command in the tool:

```console
.loadby sos clr
```

WinDbg.exe and Visual Studio use a version of SOS.dll that corresponds to the version of Mscorwks.dll currently in use. By default, you should use the version of SOS.dll that matches the current version of Mscorwks.dll.

To use a dump file created on another computer, make sure that the Mscorwks.dll file that came with that installation is in your symbol path, and load the corresponding version of SOS.dll.

> To load a specific version of SOS.dll, type the following command into the Windows Debugger:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To load a specific version of SOS.dll, enter the following command into the Windows Debugger:
```

```console
.load <full path to sos.dll>
```

### LLDB Debugger

Please see [dotnet-sos](dotnet-sos) for instructions on configuring SOS for LLDB. SOS commands can be used on live processes or dumps.<br/><br/>

> By default you can reach all the SOS commands by using: _sos [command\_name]_

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
By default, you can reach all the SOS commands by entering `sos [command\_name]`.
```

> However the common commands have been aliased so that you don't need the SOS prefix:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
However, the common commands have been aliased so that you don't need the `sos` prefix:
```

| Command                             | Function                                                                                      |
| ----------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> |    bpmd                             | Creates a breakpoint at the specified managed method in the specified module.

Reviewer 4: The commands should be code-fenced.

|    clrstack                         | Provides a stack trace of managed code only.

> |    clrthreads                       | List the managed threads running.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|    clrthreads                       | List the managed threads that are running.
```

|    clru                             | Displays an annotated disassembly of a managed method.
|    dso                              | Displays all managed objects found within the bounds of the current stack.
|    dumpasync                        | Displays info about async state machines on the garbage-collected heap.

> |    dumpclass                        | Displays information about a EE class structure at the specified address.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|    dumpclass                        | Displays information about the EE class structure at the specified address.
```

Will it be obvious to readers what EE is?

Author: EEClass is an internal data structure.  The "Dump*" SOS commands display internal .NET Runtime data structures in the debugger.  I removed space between "EE" and "class".  Please let me know if there's anything else I should do to further clarify it.

|    dumpdomain                       | Displays information all the AppDomains and all assemblies within the domains.
|    dumpheap                         | Displays info about the garbage-collected heap and collection statistics about objects.
|    dumpil                           | Displays the Microsoft intermediate language (MSIL) that is associated with a managed method.
|    dumplog                          | Writes the contents of an in-memory stress log to the specified file.

> |    dumpmd                           | Displays information about a MethodDesc structure at the specified address.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|    dumpmd                           | Displays information about the `MethodDesc` structure at the specified address.
```

> |    dumpmodule                       | Displays information about a EE module structure at the specified address.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|    dumpmodule                       | Displays information about the EE module structure at the specified address.
```

> |    dumpmt                           | Displays information about a method table at the specified address.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|    dumpmt                           | Displays information about the method table at the specified address.
```

> |    dumpobj                          | Displays info about an object at the specified address.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|    dumpobj                          | Displays info about the object at the specified address.
```

|    dumpstack                        | Displays a native and managed stack trace.
|    eeheap                           | Displays info about process memory consumed by internal runtime data structures.

> |    eestack                          | Runs dumpstack on all threads in the process.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|    eestack                          | Runs `dumpstack` on all threads in the process.
```

> |    gcroot                           | Displays info about references (or roots) to an object at the specified address.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|    gcroot                           | Displays info about references (or roots) to the object at the specified address.
```

|    histclear                        | Releases any resources used by the family of Hist commands.
|    histinit                         | Initializes the SOS structures from the stress log saved in the debuggee.
|    histobj                          | Examines all stress log relocation records and displays the chain of garbage collection relocations that may have led to the address passed in as an argument.

> |    histobjfind                      | Displays all the log entries that reference an object at the specified address.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|    histobjfind                      | Displays all the log entries that reference the object at the specified address.
```

|    histroot                         | Displays information related to both promotions and relocations of the specified root.
|    ip2md                            | Displays the MethodDesc structure at the specified address in code that has been JIT-compiled.
|    loadsymbols                      | Load the .NET Core native module symbols.
|    name2ee                          | Displays the MethodTable structure and EEClass structure for the specified type or method in the specified module.
|    pe                               | Displays and formats fields of any object derived from the Exception class at the specified address.

> |    setclrpath                       | Set the path to load coreclr dac/dbi files. setclrpath `<path`>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|    setclrpath                       | Sets the path to load coreclr dac/dbi files: `setclrpath <path>`
```

|    sethostruntime                   | Sets or displays the .NET Core runtime directory to use to run managed code in SOS.
|    setsymbolserver                  | Enables the symbol server support.

> |    setsostid                        | Set the current os tid/thread index instead of using the one lldb provides. setsostid `<tid`> `<index`>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|    setsostid                        | Set the current OS tid/thread index instead of using the one lldb provides: `setsostid <tid> <index>`
```

> |    sos                              | Various coreclr debugging commands. See 'soshelp' for more details. sos `<command-name`> `<args`>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|    sos                              | Various coreclr debugging commands. See 'soshelp' for more details. `sos <command-name> <args>`
```

> |    soshelp                          | Displays all available commands when no parameter is specified, or displays detailed help information about the specified command. soshelp `<command`>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|    soshelp                          | Displays all available commands when no parameter is specified, or displays detailed help information about the specified command. `soshelp <command>`
```

|    syncblk                          | Displays the SyncBlock holder info.

> ## Examples

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

> ### Windbg/cdb Example Usage

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Windbg/cdb example usage
```

> The following command displays the contents of an array at the address `00ad28d0`.  The display starts from the second element and continues for five elements.

Reviewer 4: I think these examples would be better in a table layout.

| Command | Description |
| - | - |
| `!dumparray -start 2 -length 5 -detail 00ad28d0` | Displays the contents of an array at the address `00ad28d0`.  The display starts from the second element and continues for five elements. |
| `!dumpassembly 1ca248` | Displays the contents of an assembly at the address `1ca248`. |

etc. It's hard to read as-is.

Author: Thanks! I have changed it to a table format.

```
!dumpmodule 1caa50
```

 The following command displays information about an object at the address `a79d40`.

```
!DumpObj a79d40
```

 The following command displays the fields of a value class at the address `00a79d9c` using the method table at the address `0090320c`.

```
!DumpVC 0090320c 00a79d9c
```

 The following command displays the process memory used by the garbage collector.

```
!eeheap -gc
```

 The following command displays all objects scheduled for finalization.

```
!finalizequeue
```

 The following command determines the application domain of an object at the address `00a79d98`.

```
!findappdomain 00a79d98
```

 The following command displays all garbage collector handles in the current process.

```
!gcinfo 5b68dbb8
```

 The following command displays the `MethodTable` and `EEClass` structures for the `Main` method in the class `MainClass` in the module `unittest.exe`.

```
!name2ee unittest.exe MainClass.Main
```

 The following command displays information about the metadata token at the address `02000003` in the module `unittest.exe`.

```
!token2ee unittest.exe 02000003
```

> ### LLDB Example Usage

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## LLDB example usage
```

```
dumpmd 902f40
```

 The following command displays information about a module at the address `1caa50`.

```
dumpmodule 1caa50
```

 The following command displays information about an object at the address `a79d40`.

```
dumpobj a79d40
```

 The following command displays the fields of a value class at the address `00a79d9c` using the method table at the address `0090320c`.

```
sos DumpVC 0090320c 00a79d9c
```

 The following command displays the process memory used by the garbage collector.

```
eeheap -gc
```

 The following command determines the application domain of an object at the address `00a79d98`.

```
sos FindAppDomain 00a79d98
```

 The following command displays all garbage collector handles in the current process.

```
sos GCInfo 5b68dbb8
```

 The following command displays the `MethodTable` and `EEClass` structures for the `Main` method in the class `MainClass` in the module `unittest.exe`.

```
name2ee unittest.exe MainClass.Main
```

 The following command displays information about the metadata token at the address `02000003` in the module `unittest.exe`.

```
sos Token2EE unittest.exe 02000003
```

>  The following displays the managed threads and the threadstate for one:

Reviewer 4: This one wouldn't fit the table so just keep it separate.

Author: I removed the block section and changed it to a table.  Please let me know if I should revert the change back to the original format.
